Let's go ahead and go over the solution for the first probability interview question.
Just to reiterate the question you're given a fair coin and on average how many flips would you need
to get two of the same flip in a row.
Either two heads in a row or two tails in a row.
Let's start by trying to calculate P of M which is to say the probability that we get two consecutive
flips either heads heads or tails tails on the nth toss.
So just to further examine what we mean by that pre-event or that probability.
Let's go ahead and examine it for a specific and first and then we'll generalize it to the nth toss.
So if we think about what PIAA then is for unequals to that is what is the probability that out of two
tosses you're going to get heads heads or tails tails Well it's actually quite simple for such a low
number n For one thing we know we need a minimum of N is equal to or greater than two flips for the
probability in general.
And so for two tosses there's only four possible flips that can occur either heads heads tails tails
heads tails or tails heads.
So we know the answer or even for an equal to two is going to be two out of four of those flips get
to a sequence in a row.
Or in other words one half probability that if you flip a coin twice you're going to get either heads
heads or tails tails.
So now we want to do generalize this to the nth toss.
Not just to unequals to.
So again we're going to calculate given the probability that we get two consecutive flips on the nth
toss.
We know that flips from 1 all the way to end minus one are going to need to be in the form of either
heads tails heads tails etcetera or tails heads tails heads because they need to be alternating.
Otherwise we would've already had the two consecutive flips.
So now what's the probability of getting that series by itself just an alternating series up to and
minus one.
What's that actual probability Well the probability of getting an alternating series of flips for and
minus one tosses is equal to two over two to the power and minus one.
Because each of the series individually is 1 over 2 and minus 1 probability of occurring.
So this is because if we think about this each individual Flip has a 1 half chance of the being the
flip that we need to continue the alternating series.
So that means for and minus one tosses we need to do one half times one half times one half all the
way until and minus one times to calculate the probability of getting that particular alternating sequence
and minus one times.
So that's the result of the probability one over to the minus one because there are two possible alternating
sequences that is tails first or heads first.
We know that we can just add up these probabilities and then we get that the probability for that alternating
sequence is going to be to over 2 to the end minus 1.
So that's a probability of an alternating sequence of two and minus one.
And we know that that toss needs to match up to the previous toss.
And the odds of that happening are 1 1/2.
So that just means that we're going to end up getting that the probability of N or probability of getting
that consecutive flip on the nth toss is going to be the probability of getting alternating sequence
times the probability of that last flip matching the previous flip.
So that's two over two to the power of minus one multiplied by one half.
That last flip and then that's going to be equal to 1 over to the power of minus 1.
So one over to the end of minus one.
That's the answer for the probability of n.
So that given that we were looking for and now we can use that to actually get the expected number of
flips.
So we know the formula for an expected value is going to equal two.
If you have X we're looking for is going to be x 1 times probability of one occurring plus X two times
probability of occurring plus all the way to some X's KMP of k.
In our case we know that x is equal to and and P is equal to that probability event that we just calculated.
So with our values we end up getting is a geometric series that sums up to three.
So we end up calculating the sum from an equal to all the way to infinity and times probability of N
and then we get up getting geometric sum of and over to the end minus 1 and that sums up to 3.
So this does require you to remember how to sum up a geometric series.
So you can check out the guidebook for more information on that.
In case you're a little rusty on that.
But that gives you the answer of the expected number of tosses you a need in order to get two flips
in a row.
And hopefully intuitively that feels correct that you need to do three flips on average up getting two
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.